docs: add binary executable support to MCP tools (#183)
agno-agi/agno-docs: tools/toolkits/apify.mdx

title: Apify
---

This guide demonstrates how to integrate and use [Apify](https://apify.com/actors) Actors within the Agno framework to enhance your AI agents with web scraping, crawling, data extraction, and web automation capabilities.

## What is Apify?

[Apify](https://apify.com/) is a platform that provides:
- Data collection services for AI Agents, specializing in extracting data from social media, search engines, online maps, e-commerce sites, travel portals, or general websites
- A marketplace of ready-to-use Actors (specialized tools) for various data tasks
- Infrastructure to run and monetize our own AI Agents

## Prerequisites

1. Sign up for an [Apify account](https://console.apify.com/sign-up)
2. Obtain your Apify API token (can be obtained from [Apify](https://docs.apify.com/platform/integrations/api))
3. Install the required packages:

```bash

> pip install agno apify-client langchain-apify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pip install agno apify-client
```

- Infrastructure to run and monetize our own AI Agents

## Prerequisites

1. Sign up for an [Apify account](https://console.apify.com/sign-up)
2. Obtain your Apify API token (can be obtained from [Apify](https://docs.apify.com/platform/integrations/api))
3. Install the required packages:

```bash
pip install agno apify-client langchain-apify
```

## Basic Usage

The Agno framework makes it easy to integrate Apify Actors into your agents. Here's a simple example:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.apify import ApifyTools

# Create an agent with ApifyTools
agent = Agent(
    tools=[
        ApifyTools(
            actors=["apify/rag-web-browser"],  # Specify which Apify Actors to use, use multiple ones if needed
            apify_api_token="your_apify_api_key"  # Or set the APIFY_API_TOKEN environment variable 
        )
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    markdown=True
)

# Use the agent to get website content
agent.print_response("What information can you find on https://docs.agno.com/introduction ?", markdown=True)
```

## Available Apify Tools

You can easily integrate any Apify Actor as a tool. Here are some examples:

### 1. RAG Web Browser

> The RAG Web Browser Actor is specifically designed for AI and LLM applications. It searches the web for a query or processes a URL, then cleans and formats the content for your agent. This tool is enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [RAG Web Browser](https://apify.com/apify/rag-web-browser) Actor is specifically designed for AI and LLM applications. It searches the web for a query or processes a URL, then cleans and formats the content for your agent. This tool is enabled by default.
```

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.apify import ApifyTools

agent = Agent(
    tools=[
        ApifyTools(["apify/rag-web-browser"])
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    markdown=True
)

# Search for information and process the results
agent.print_response("What are the latest developments in large language models?", markdown=True)
```

### 2. Website Content Crawler

> This tool uses Apify's Website Content Crawler Actor to extract text content from websites, making it perfect for RAG applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tool uses Apify's [Website Content Crawler](https://apify.com/apify/website-content-crawler) Actor to extract text content from websites, making it perfect for RAG applications.
```

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.apify import ApifyTools

agent = Agent(
    tools=[
        ApifyTools(["apify/website-content-crawler"])
    ],
    markdown=True
)

# Ask the agent to process web content
agent.print_response("Summarize the content from https://docs.agno.com/introduction", markdown=True)
```

### 3. Google Places Crawler

> This tool extracts data about businesses from Google Maps and Google Places.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Google Places Crawler](https://apify.com/compass/crawler-google-places) extracts data about businesses from Google Maps and Google Places.
```

            "compass/crawler-google-places"
        ])
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True
)

# Get general information and local businesses
agent.print_response(
    """
    I'm traveling to Tokyo next month.
    1. Research the best time to visit and major attractions
    2. Find one good rated sushi restaurants near Shinjuku
    Compile a comprehensive travel guide with this information.
    """,
    markdown=True
)
```

## Toolkit Params

| Parameter                    | Type                | Default | Description                                                        |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `apify_api_token`            | `str`               | `None`  | Apify API token (or set via APIFY_API_TOKEN environment variable)  |
| `actors`                     | `str` or `List[str]`| `None`  | Single Actor ID or list of Actor IDs to register                   |

## Developer Resources

- View [Tools](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/blob/main/libs/agno/agno/tools/apify.py)
- View [Cookbook](https://github.com/agno-agi/agno/blob/main/cookbook/tools/apify_tools.py)

## Resources

> - [Apify Platform Documentation](https://docs.apify.com)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- [Apify Actor Documentation](https://docs.apify.com/Actors)
- [Apify Store - Browse available Actors](https://apify.com/store)

> - [How to build an AI Agent](https://blog.apify.com/how-to-build-an-ai-agent/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [How to build and monetize an AI agent on Apify](https://blog.apify.com/how-to-build-an-ai-agent/)
```

Reviewer 2: Let's keep the list short

title: Apify
---

> This guide demonstrates how to integrate and use [Apify](https://apify.com/actors) Actors within the Agno framework to enhance your AI agents with very powerful data collection capabilities.

Reviewer 3: I personally would simplify this, be more technical. I would remove the `very powerful` and mention specific capabilities like "web scraping, crawling, data extraction, and web automation capabilities." (see https://docs.crewai.com/tools/apifyactorstool)

## What is Apify?

> [Apify](https://apify.com/) is a platform that provides:

Reviewer 3: I would specifically mention at least social media - that is currently Apify's strength.

Maybe incorporate more from this list "extracting data from social media, search engines, online maps, e-commerce sites, travel portals, or general websites." (see https://docs.crewai.com/tools/apifyactorstool)

- Data collection services for AI Agents
- A marketplace of ready-to-use Actors (specialized tools) for various data tasks
- Infrastructure to run and monetize our own AI Agents

## Prerequisites

> 1. Sign up for an Apify account

Reviewer 3: I would add link here

2. Obtain your Apify API token (can be obtained from [Apify](https://docs.apify.com/platform/integrations/api))
3. Install the required packages:

```bash
pip install agno apify-client langchain-apify
```

## Basic Usage

The Agno framework makes it easy to integrate Apify Actors into your agents. Here's a simple example:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.apify import ApifyTools

# Create an agent with ApifyTools
agent = Agent(
    tools=[
        ApifyTools(

>             actors=["apify/rag-web-browser"],  # Specify which Apify actors to use, use multiple ones if needed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            actors=["apify/rag-web-browser"],  # Specify which Apify Actors to use, use multiple ones if needed
```

            apify_api_token="your_apify_api_key"  # Or set the APIFY_API_TOKEN environment variable 
        )
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    markdown=True
)

# Use the agent to get website content
agent.print_response("What information can you find on https://docs.agno.com/introduction ?", markdown=True)
```

## Available Apify Tools

> You can easily integrate any Apify Actor as a tool, but we prepared some examples for you:

Reviewer 3: I would remove the 'but'. Maybe change to something like "Actor as a tool. Here are some examples:". But that is personal opinion.

### 1. RAG Web Browser

> The RAG Web Browser actor is specifically designed for AI and LLM applications. It searches the web for a query or processes a URL, then cleans and formats the content for your agent. This tool is enabled by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The RAG Web Browser Actor is specifically designed for AI and LLM applications. It searches the web for a query or processes a URL, then cleans and formats the content for your agent. This tool is enabled by default.
```

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.apify import ApifyTools

agent = Agent(
    tools=[
        ApifyTools(["apify/rag-web-browser"])
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True,
    markdown=True
)

# Search for information and process the results
agent.print_response("What are the latest developments in large language models?", markdown=True)
```

### 2. Website Content Crawler

> This tool uses Apify's Website Content Crawler actor to extract text content from websites, making it perfect for RAG applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tool uses Apify's Website Content Crawler Actor to extract text content from websites, making it perfect for RAG applications.
```

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.apify import ApifyTools

agent = Agent(
    tools=[
        ApifyTools(["compass/crawler-google-places"])
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True
)

# Find business information in a specific location
agent.print_response("What are the top-rated restaurants in San Francisco?", markdown=True)
agent.print_response("Find coffee shops in Prague", markdown=True)
```

## Example Scenarios

### RAG Web Browser + Google Places Crawler
This example combines web search with local business data to provide comprehensive information about a topic:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.apify import ApifyTools

agent = Agent(
    tools=[
        ApifyTools([
            "apify/rag-web-browser",
            "compass/crawler-google-places"
        ])
    ],
    show_tool_calls=True
)

# Get general information and local businesses
agent.print_response(
    """
    I'm traveling to Tokyo next month.
    1. Research the best time to visit and major attractions
    2. Find one good rated sushi restaurants near Shinjuku
    Compile a comprehensive travel guide with this information.
    """,
    markdown=True
)
```

> ## Implementation Details

Reviewer 3: I don't know if we want to show the "simplified implementation reference for the ApifyTools class".

Below is a simplified implementation reference for the ApifyTools class. You can find the complete implementation in the source code.

```python
from agno.tools import Toolkit
from apify_client import ApifyClient
from langchain_apify import ApifyActorsTool

class ApifyTools(Toolkit):
    def __init__(
        self,
        actors: Union[str, List[str]] = None,
        apify_api_token: Optional[str] = None
    ):
        # Initialize toolkit with Apify API token
        super().__init__(name="ApifyTools")
        self.apify_api_token = apify_api_token or os.getenv('APIFY_API_TOKEN')
        self.client = ApifyClient(self.apify_api_token)
        

>         # Register specific actors if provided

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        # Register specific Actors if provided
```

        if actors:
            actor_list = [actors] if isinstance(actors, str) else actors
            for actor_id in actor_list:
                self.register_actor(actor_id)
    
    def register_actor(self, actor_id: str) -> None:

>         # Register an Apify actor as a function in the toolkit

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        # Register an Apify Actor as a function in the toolkit
```

        # Implementation details...
```

## Toolkit Params

| Parameter                    | Type                | Default | Description                                                        |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `apify_api_token`            | `str`               | `None`  | Apify API token (or set via APIFY_API_TOKEN environment variable)  |

> | `actors`                     | `str` or `List[str]`| `None`  | Single actor ID or list of actor IDs to register                   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `actors`                     | `str` or `List[str]`| `None`  | Single Actor ID or list of Actor IDs to register                   |
```
